p8105_hw1_bpg2118.md, before:

p8105\_hw1\_bpg2118
================
Benjamin Goebel
9/28/2021

#### **Problem 1**

``` r
# Create data frame per the specifications in problem one.
problem_one_tibble <- tibble(
  random_norm_samp = rnorm(n = 10),
  greater_than_zero = random_norm_samp > 0,
  meaningless_character_vector = "Meaningless Character Vector",
  three_level_factor = as.factor(c("low", "low", "low", "low", "low",
                                   "medium", "medium",
                                   "high", "high", "high"))
)
```

In the console, I attempted to take the mean of each column. I was able
to take the mean of the random normal sample and logical variables,
which both resulted in numeric values. The output was NA with a warning
message when I took the mean of the character vector and factor
variables.

``` r
as.numeric(pull(problem_one_tibble, greater_than_zero))
as.numeric(pull(problem_one_tibble, meaningless_character_vector))
as.numeric(pull(problem_one_tibble, three_level_factor))
```

When applying the as.numeric function to the logical vector, the logical
vector’s values are converted to zeroes and ones. This helps to explain
the mean output of this column. The mean is 0.5. When applying the
as.numeric function to the character vector, the character vector’s
values are all converted to NA. This helps to explain the mean output of
this column, which results in NA with a warning message. When applying
the as.numeric function to the factor vector, the factor vector’s values
are converted to ones, twos and threes. I understand these to be the
three levels of the factor vector. This result is not helpful in
explaining the mean output of this column. Given R’s behavior when
taking the mean of the logical vector, I would have expected R to take
the mean of the ones, twos and threes when applying the mean to the
factor vector. Instead, when taking the mean of the factor vector, R
outputs NA with a warning message. Nonetheless, this behavior is
preferred. The mean of a logical vector, where TRUE/FALSE values are
converted to ones and zeroes, can be useful. The mean is equivalent to
the proportion of TRUE values in the vector. The mean of a factor vector
makes no sense and serves no value.

#### **Problem 2**

Loading the penguins data.

``` r
data("penguins", package = "palmerpenguins")
```

The penguins data set contains information on penguins! This data set
has 344 rows and 8 columns. This data is collected in the following
column names: species, island, bill\_length\_mm, bill\_depth\_mm,
flipper\_length\_mm, body\_mass\_g, sex, year. The mean flipper length
is 200.92 mm. There are 3 species, originating from 3 different islands.
The data was collected from 2007 to 2009.

Here is the scatter plot of flipper\_length\_mm (y) vs. bill\_length\_mm
(x) colored by species type.

``` r
ggplot(penguins, aes(x = bill_length_mm, y = flipper_length_mm, 
                     color = species)) +
  geom_point() +
  labs(x = "Bill Length (mm)",
       y = "Flipper Length (mm)",
       color = "Species") +
  ggtitle("Flipper Length as a function of Bill Length stratified by Species")
```

![](p8105_hw1_bpg2118_files/figure-gfm/unnamed-chunk-5-1.png)<!-- -->

Exporting the plot to pdf.

``` r
ggsave("Problem_Two_Scatter_Plot.pdf")
```

Commit message:

Added minor comments and made minor grammatical changes throughout. Added mean bill length to problem 2 summary of the penguins data set. Also, deleted a sentence about the column names in the summary of the penguins data set for problem 2.

p8105_hw1_bpg2118.md, after:

p8105\_hw1\_bpg2118
================
Benjamin Goebel
9/28/2021

#### **Problem 1**

Here is the data frame.

``` r
# Create data frame per the specifications in problem one.
problem_one_tibble <- tibble(
  random_norm_samp = rnorm(n = 10),
  greater_than_zero = random_norm_samp > 0,
  meaningless_character_vector = "Meaningless Character Vector",
  three_level_factor = as.factor(c("low", "low", "low", "low", "low",
                                   "medium", "medium",
                                   "high", "high", "high"))
)
```

In the console, I attempted to take the mean of each column. I was able
to take the mean of the random normal sample and logical variables,
which both resulted in numeric values. The output was NA with a warning
message when I took the mean of the character vector and factor
variables.

Next, I attempted to apply the as.numeric function to the logical,
character and factor variables.

``` r
# Convert variables to numeric
as.numeric(pull(problem_one_tibble, greater_than_zero))
as.numeric(pull(problem_one_tibble, meaningless_character_vector))
as.numeric(pull(problem_one_tibble, three_level_factor))
```

When applying the as.numeric function to the logical vector, the logical
vector’s values are converted to zeroes and ones. This helps to explain
the mean output of this column. The mean is 0.5. When applying the
as.numeric function to the character vector, the character vector’s
values are all converted to NA. This helps to explain the mean output of
this column, which results in NA with a warning message. When applying
the as.numeric function to the factor vector, the factor vector’s values
are converted to ones, twos and threes. I understand these to be the
three levels of the factor vector. This result is not helpful in
explaining the mean output of this column. Given R’s behavior when
taking the mean of the logical vector, I would have expected R to take
the mean of the ones, twos and threes when applying the mean to the
factor vector. Instead, when taking the mean of the factor vector, R
outputs NA with a warning message. Nonetheless, this behavior is
preferred. The mean of a logical vector, where TRUE/FALSE values are
converted to ones and zeroes, can be useful. The mean is equivalent to
the proportion of TRUE values in the vector. The mean of a factor vector
makes no sense and serves no value.

#### **Problem 2**

Loading the penguins data.

``` r
data("penguins", package = "palmerpenguins")
```

The penguins data set contains biological information on penguins! This
data set has 344 rows and 8 columns. The mean flipper length is 200.92
mm. The mean bill length is 43.92 mm. There are 3 species, originating
from 3 different islands. The data was collected from 2007 to 2009.

Here is the scatter plot of flipper\_length\_mm (y) vs. bill\_length\_mm
(x) colored by species type.

``` r
# Plot scatter plot with labels and title
ggplot(penguins, aes(x = bill_length_mm, y = flipper_length_mm, 
                     color = species)) +
  geom_point() +
  labs(x = "Bill Length (mm)",
       y = "Flipper Length (mm)",
       color = "Species") +
  ggtitle("Flipper Length as a function of Bill Length stratified by Species")
```

![](p8105_hw1_bpg2118_files/figure-gfm/unnamed-chunk-5-1.png)<!-- -->

Exporting the plot to pdf.

``` r
ggsave("Problem_Two_Scatter_Plot.pdf")
```
